Update species compendium section (#78)
AlexsLemonade/refinebio-docs: docs/main_text.md

# Species compendia

> We plan to periodically release compendia comprised of all the samples from a species that we were able to process.

Reviewer: We will ...

Reviewer: Or just... "We periodically..."

We refer to these as **species compendia**.

> We process these compendia in a manner that is different from the options that are available via the web user interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We process these compendia in a manner that is different from the options that are available via the web user interface.
These species compendia provide a snapshot of the most complete collection of gene expression that refine.bio can produce for each supported organism.
```

> We process these compendia in a manner that is different from the options that are available via the web user interface.

Reviewer: We should say why here. Something like:

> These species compendia provide a snapshot of the most complete collection of gene expression data that refine.bio can produce for each supported organism.

> Instead of selecting only genes available in all samples, we take the union of all genes, filling in any missing values with `NA`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The refine.bio web interface does an inner join when datasets are combined, so only genes present in all datasets are included in the final matrix.
For compendia, we take the union of all genes, filling in any missing values with `NA`. 
```

This is a "full outer join" as illustrated below. 

![outer join](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/15315514/44534241-4dde9100-a6c5-11e8-8a9c-aa147e294e81.png)

We perform an outer join each time samples are combined in the process of building species compendia.

![docs-species-compendia](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/15315514/48498088-72995f00-e803-11e8-8832-3a9024748431.png)

Samples from each technology—microarray and RNA-seq—are combined separately.
In RNA-seq samples, we filter out genes with low total counts and then `log2(x + 1)` the data.

> We join samples from both technologies, drop genes that have missing values in greater than 30% of samples, and drop samples that have missing values in greater than 50% of genes.

Reviewer: Just to check, you drop samples first, then genes?

Author: No, we drop genes (https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/refinebio/blob/a27543a83ebe6946fe87ed082a64458ad7d57b12/workers/data_refinery_workers/processors/create_compendia.py#L137) and then samples (https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/refinebio/blob/a27543a83ebe6946fe87ed082a64458ad7d57b12/workers/data_refinery_workers/processors/create_compendia.py#L145). I'll include your suggested change below.

> We join samples from both technologies, drop genes that have missing values in greater than 30% of samples, and drop samples that have missing values in greater than 50% of genes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We join samples from both technologies.
We then drop genes that have missing values in greater than 30% of samples.
Finally, we drop samples that have missing values in greater than 50% of genes.
```

# Species compendia

We periodically release compendia comprised of all the samples from a species that we were able to process.
We refer to these as **species compendia**.
We process these compendia in a manner that is different from the options that are available via the web user interface.
These species compendia provide a snapshot of the most complete collection of gene expression that refine.bio can produce for each supported organism.

The refine.bio web interface does an inner join when datasets are combined, so only genes present in all datasets are included in the final matrix.
For compendia, we take the union of all genes, filling in any missing values with `NA`. 

> This is a "full outer join" as illustrated below. 

Reviewer 2: Would it make sense to add rationale for choosing outer join? (It's not obvious to me but could be to researchers)

Author: I believe it is likely to be obvious to folks that are most interested in this offering, but that's a hunch based on my experience. I'm happy to change it if that turns out not to be the case.
